---
title: Rad Radius
date: '2024-11-19'
---

## Adding a radius to bound clue solutions

This should be pretty straightforward. We want users to be near a location when solving the clue so we need to set some boundaries.

[_commit 9a3705c282bc0dfb1303ca35ab61a8a916f9098a_](https://github.com/j-garrett/scavenger-hunt-front/commit/9a3705c282bc0dfb1303ca35ab61a8a916f9098a)

It seems like asking directed questions gets things down pretty quickly, but the files are getting large enough that I don't want to willy-nilly copy paste. If I had copy pasted then there would have been some regressions.

Instead I was able to read the tldr;!

> In this updated code:
>
> - The `LocationForm` component includes a radius input field that is controlled by the radius state in the `Home` component.
> - The `handleRadiusChange` function updates the radius state in real-time as the user changes the radius input.
> - The `useEffect` hook updates the circle's radius whenever the radius state changes.

The links above set the `Home` file to the `useState` setup for the radius control which was helpful, but it would have been nice to get just the changes highlighted to copy by line.

I think the inline copilot may have been a better choice since I knew the steps needed specifically, but I could also have copied the whole file and reviewed changes in git before committing.

I'll try compare those approaches next time!

Now I have to decide if I want to refine the frontend via styling, complexity, and tests or if I want to add persistency and get the backend working.

### Potential Complexity

- Add chatGPT API to help you build your hunts
- Add image comparison for solutions
